hello
and welcome to saster annual 2020. thank
you for joining us today
i'm going to pass it over to our
presenters now good morning saster
thank you so much for taking time out of
your day to join us my name is
zach johnson i'm the general manager of
embedded analytics at vizier
i have to say i am so excited to be here
i've been a longtime disaster
reader and i've attended multiple events
in person and i remember
just how difficult it was you know being
a founder
once upon a time trying to get my first
customers close rounds of investment
all the various things that we needed to
do in order to be able to build our
businesses
but i think the most challenging one
really was you know
just trying to deal with people right
like we'd have all these teams
and we'd recruit this top talent but
people problems made work really tough
so today
we're going to take some time to talk
about why investing in people matters
and also five secret metrics to track to
get you started on your people on
ellipse journey
i have a special guest with me today
molly sands from humu
molly why don't you tell the audience a
little bit about yourself hi everyone
excited to be here i am a people
scientist at humu
and at humor our mission is really to
make work better for people
and we do that using behavioral change
technology
that delivers nudges which are little
personalized coaching moments to
everyone across an organization
to really unlock the potential of
individuals teams and the company as a
whole
thanks molly super excited to have you
here today so
why are we talking about people
analytics that event that's mostly for
startup founders
what's crazy to me is if we look back 10
years from now
i think we're going to consider it
ridiculous that we don't measure
people in a standardized way across all
of our businesses think about it imagine
if your organization like didn't track
your sales funnel
or like didn't track your marketing
automation or like didn't use quickbooks
or netsuite to track your finances
it'd be absolutely bonkers but
regardless
today we spend most of our money on
people like most companies it's about 80
of your capital expenditure is based on
your payroll but we don't have
systematic ways that we measure
what makes talent effective how do we
develop talent and how do we
um really make sure that we're spending
our money the best way on people and
really developing and getting the most
out of them
and what's been really exciting is over
the last couple years
a whole bunch of technologies hit the
market both through hr vendors and
through folks who've been focused on
analytics
to really help whether you're an
executive or a manager or someone hr
be able to make sense of this really
complicated and hard to measure asset
what's even crazier though is i always
thought that this stuff would happen
but over the past six months and i mean
you know we're all remote today
just the change in how people work has
made this something that's absolutely
critical and has really accelerated this
process
right whether it's having people work
remotely or scaling up and scaling down
your head count based on changes in
demand whether positive or negative
and that change isn't gonna change isn't
gonna isn't gonna slow down anytime soon
and so today even though we know that
especially as startup founders and
early stage executives you're really
really busy
and there's only so much time to spend
on hr it's one of like 90 priorities
that you're working on
we wanted to give you a head start to
think about you know what are some of
the ways that you can make your people
data that you
already have through your current hr and
payroll systems begin to work for you
and begin to help you go on a journey
from
managing kind of by gut feel to really
putting some rigor around your talent so
you can be the absolute best company
that you can be
and so i want to kick things off first
by talking a little bit about
what are people analytics right you
heard me drop the term a couple times
i like to think of people analytics and
molly feel free to
correct me if you disagree as like the
macro category of
all the things you can measure about
your people right whether it's like
you know who you know stuff as simple as
like how many employees do i have
how long have people worked for me all
the way to like who talks to who how do
people collaborate
how do we measure trust all those
various things now for the sake of this
audience
as much as fun as it would be like
spring applied social network analysis
on you guys or like use nlp on all of
your employees slack messages
like let's start with the basics and
really focus on some of the things
around hr
and so one one way that i like to think
about people analytics before we dive
into the metrics
is it's kind of like you're baking a
cake now mind you i'm more of a sous
chef than a chef so like when we talk
about baking a cake like this is
kind of kind of theoretical for me but
the idea is like when you bake a cake
you've got ingredients you've got
analytics
and then oh sorry you've got ingredients
you've got an oven and then you
you get cake now when you're baking a
cake unless you're crazy or you're on
like some tv show doing it for everybody
you really focus on getting the food you
eat at the end same thing when you're
talking about people analytics
yes you have data and that's a key
ingredient yes you have your analytics
engine or whatever your your development
team or your it organization tells you
they're going to want to build for you
but the end of the day you care about
insight and so
today i'm going to talk a little bit
high level uh for each of these metrics
about things from like the data and
analytics perspective
and then molly is an expert in helping
people eat the cake
and so i'll be to bring bring molly in
on each one for a little bit of a story
on how folks are thinking about some of
these things
in the marketplace today so let's talk
about the first one and i want to start
with the basics and i know there's
people on the call who are probably
rolling their eyes right now because
everyone's heard of engagement
but to be honest it's a really great
place for organizations to start
who aren't measuring their employees and
yes you may have a 10 person company or
a 15 person company or a four-person
company
but there's tons of tools out there to
help you check in on how your employees
are feeling about work
and so one of the things that i think is
most critical in the engagement front is
just
doing it right it doesn't matter if it's
surveymonkey qualtrics or any of those
tools out there
but it gives you a barometer on how
people's uh sentiment is changing
these would be the other things you're
changing in your company now where it
gets really cool if you want to up the
ante a little bit
is to combine engagement data with other
data about your workforce
whether it's by department which is like
the obvious one that comes in most of
the engagement tools you can buy
or other things like you know tenure
different diversity uh uh
tagged groups um looking at people with
different sales outcomes or sorry
organizations uh within your company
with different sales outcomes
you can start to slice and dice and
really understand what's driving what
could potentially be a future engagement
problem
as opposed to trying to you know just
blanket have a solution for your whole
organization
now when i spoke with molly and prep
though she's told me that there are some
surprising things that they're saying
with humu
uh when looking at engagement in covent
so molly why don't you tell us a little
bit about those
yeah absolutely so at humu we help lots
of companies understand where the
highest
impact places are to invest to increase
employee happiness and engagement
and so we really focus on what can the
organization do at like a higher
procedural kind of structural level as
well as what can individuals and teams
do
to have a big impact on this and one of
the most interesting trends we're seeing
across
industries and the globe and all sorts
of different types of businesses
is that this piece around emotional
support
is not there right now the way it needs
to be
and this is kind of surprising to me
because even when you're thinking about
all the challenges people have faced in
this
crazy covenant time we have a lot of
issues around flexibility lots of people
are working from home with their kids or
their jobs are changing dramatically
they're asked to learn new skills
but in fact what we're finding is that
emotional support from your colleagues
is really one of the highest impact
things that can happen and people are
missing it right now
and so we're hearing a lot from
employees that jobs are
quickly just becoming a job and they're
not feeling like that fun
connective part of their experience at
work is there
and that's really scary for
organizations because that means that
people are a lot more likely to leave
especially if things in the economy
improve and as job opportunities open up
again
and so that sense of belonging is really
really critical right now
and that's one place that i would really
advise everyone from leaders and
managers
to invest in their people right now
thanks molly yeah
i mean we see that in our everyday work
on the support side i think that's
that's really really helpful for the
audience
i want to talk about the second one and
so if engagement is soft and squishy for
you and you're like hey all i really
want to do is optimize my sales funnel
when you think about people and when you
think about how you deploy people
it's really really expensive and so
another key area to focus on
um as you move past some of the more
simple things like like like engagement
or sentiment
is looking at like how you're actually
staffing up people these would be the
productivity metrics that matter for
your business
now i like to think of things in terms
of like simple business metrics i find
that
businesses splinter so much that like
it's just an easier way to conceptualize
when you're talking about like imagine
you have a restaurant right
during covid depending on your local
jurisdictions
you'd have to you know you'd have to
scale down
your staff that you deploy right like
you'd have to space out seats
you'd also maybe have to open up a
delivery business if you didn't have one
before
like that's a lot of stuff to keep track
of as you're balancing overtime spend
for
for hourly workers do you have your best
people on your best ships
that's really hard to do right but
imagine you've got a whole
chain of restaurants so being able to
take some of those people metrics who's
working when
who are the people you know like who you
know time that people are working
experience of people working uh overtime
hour utilization things like that
and then comparing them to actual output
right whether it's like units sold or
upsells or things like that
can be absolutely critical as you think
about your talent so that's once you're
getting the next level
make sure you've got a place to compare
that data together to figure out how to
squeeze more
margin out of your business molly i know
we were talking about some of the really
big companies and what they're doing
here what what are you seeing
yeah absolutely so a lot of our clients
at humu
are really focused on what i would say
sort of three different areas right now
and the first is this idea of upskilling
or reskilling employees so we've watched
a lot of businesses change just as you
said
so dramatically where one day you have
every
uh you know coffee chain is bustling and
there's tons of business in that space
or your call centers are absolutely
overwhelmed and overnight some of that
dried up you have other places within
the same business
oftentimes where growth has just like
hyper accelerated
because of the changes that have
happened and so lots of organizations
are using
people analytics to smartly
move individuals around and understand
where they have capacity and
capabilities
to really reskill people to do different
types of jobs
we're also seeing a really really strong
focus on customers
customer success customer loyalty is
really going to be
critical for coming out of this
especially for businesses
where those in-person interactions are
so important
and one way that you can ensure that
your customers have fantastic
experiences
is to make sure that your employees are
really proud to work at that company
that they care deeply that they're
really connected that they feel strong
trust in the organization
and so a lot of organizations are really
thinking about how do we invest in our
people in ways that ultimately benefit
our customers
so that those individuals are coming
back to us
as they're ready to start doing more
more things this is really prominent in
kind of the travel and hospitality
retail food service spaces and then the
other thing we're seeing that you kind
of tapped into
and with this idea around how how do you
manage
a restaurant business or a business
where it's so dramatically changed from
what you're used to
and really innovation is so key there
this is actually a huge opportunity for
companies that innovate
but it's really difficult to build up
those behaviors
and sort of the way that you do work
every day and so
i actually use nudges to help people
to bring that kind of creative
problem-solving and out-of-the-box
thinking to their day-to-day with these
quick little reminders about ways to
shift your mindset or interact with
people just a little bit differently
in ways that kind of foster that
creativity and experimentation
that turns out to be so critical in
times like this
thanks thanks molly and i'd love to talk
a little about the nudges particularly
with our next topic
um one of the things that i think is
really interesting about people
analytics is just how many aspects of
the business it can touch right we're
just talking about operational aspects
and like staffing basically
but one of the other things that i think
is really important um and i know is on
the minds of a lot of people in the
audience is
really understand diversity inclusion i
think most hr systems allow you at this
point to look at
um what i would call diversity metrics
right so how many people do you have of
groups that you've called out is being
flagged as diverse whether you're
looking at ethnicity
gender age nationality things like that
but i think what's really really
exciting and where i think
everybody here can do a little bit
better and really be able to have
data-driven
improvement in their organization is
looking more at inclusivity
around some of the things you're
measuring so like it's not just about
counting
but it's looking at things like movement
right so how does promotion compare
when you look at various demographics
right how does your compa ratios compare
for demographic groups and
what are the performance ratings and
certain like areas where bias can show
how are those manifesting themselves
your organization
we find that really the best way to
improve something is to measure it
and like even just knowing where you are
or benchmarking yourself against peer
organizations
can change a conversation from either oh
my god the sky is falling to hey we're
actually doing a good job but we could
do better here
or you know we could tell you of a
problem that a lot of other people in
your company maybe don't see the same
way
and so that's something that we've seen
has been one of the biggest improvements
we're able to look at from organizations
uh from using people analytics is being
able to take something that's
hard for a lot of people to wrap their
heads around and make it something
tangible measurable and improvable
so so molly how are the nudges being
applied to help drive like more
inclusive and diverse workforces yeah
yeah absolutely so we um we really
focus on this element of building the
behaviors that create an
inclusive culture with the nudges it's
really important
that you have all the all the metrics
and the funnels
in place to really hire a diverse
workforce to make sure that you're
really getting the best talent for the
roles that you have
and but then you want to make sure that
on the other end of that too
people are interacting in ways that give
everyone the same opportunity to feel
valued heard and empowered to succeed
and that's really what we focus on
driving with whom
with the nudges and what we hear so
often in the diversity equity and
inclusion space
is that people value the trainings
there's lots of individuals that are
really bought in and excited to do these
things
but they don't know how that shows up in
their day-to-day work
they're not sure if they missed that
opportunity to be an ally
like should you have spoken up in that
meeting how do you approach someone when
you feel like
they've been slighted in some way or
some individual has said something
inappropriate
or even more simply like how do you
de-bias those
promotion processes or the opportunities
that you're giving to people
and so we use the nudges to give leaders
managers and individual contributors at
organizations
behavioral recommendations about things
that they can do that are sort of
earlier in that process so before
there's some sort of biased promotion
decision
how do we go ahead and make sure that
everyone's getting the same type of
feedback the same type of growth
opportunities
and so that's a lot of what we focus on
in the
diversity equity and inclusion space
i think during you know during the
pandemic this has been a really
important time to
double down on diversity and inclusion
um we know that a lot of different
demographic groups have kind of been
impacted in in
really disparate ways and so the
challenges people are coping with are
probably different based on a lot of
elements of their background but also
silos form really easily
when you're shifting to remote work or
when people are on different shifted
schedules and all of those kinds of
things companies are coping with right
now
so really making sure that you're being
very intentional
about how you include across the board
and that you're measuring those outcomes
so if there are negative impacts
you're able to correct for them it's
going to be really critical and that's
where people analytics can really help
absolutely and i think it's a fantastic
transition to
our second to last metric which is
really about understanding
managers and so i think like like one of
the things that's crazy for me so at
this point
through the work we've done at vizier
and some stuff i've done before brought
people on analytics to like some
5 000 different organizations and what's
really fascinating to me every time
there's a lot of people think about just
belonging to hr but it really does
right people analytics are something
that empowers every manager of people
right because the folks who can actually
change how your organization works are
the people who
lead for the business and so whether
you're talking about diversity inclusion
and making sure that hiring managers
understand how they compare to similar
hiring lenses when it comes to diversity
or you're talking about um someone who
leaves a sales function trying to get
the most out of their
their sales people performance but you
got to make sure that you have
syndicated analytics to the rest of the
company and by the way when you're
cramming for your board presentation or
that investor deck and you're trying to
figure out how much each apartment's
grown over time and who's been added
that like like this will save you a lot
of time too if you set up some of that
infrastructure
and so i think this is one of the most
fascinating areas
uh really to focus on is what like
anything you need to measure make sure
you slice it back manager because you're
gonna have massive impact on
the change you can drive one last thing
i'll say too just like to pay attention
to the future i started earlier by
saying 10 years from now we're going to
look back and say it's crazy we didn't
measure all this stuff
the amount of analytics that's going to
be applied to measuring manager
performance over the next 10 years is
going to be astounding
and so right now where management's
mostly for folklore kind of pass down
from mentor to mentor
a lot of that stuff's going to be more
paint by numbers as data's fed through
nudges like molly's been talking about
and through other means
and so it's something where like really
understanding how you're going to be
measured in the future
is not only important for building your
own good business but also as you think
about your career opportunities and the
path you're going to take
understand that the game is going to
change a little bit under your feet and
so this is a really really critical one
uh molly how are you thinking about this
stuff
yeah so who we do we think a lot about
the
soft skills that managers need to have
and so recently
what we've seen is really that managers
that are expressing a lot of empathy
and really putting mission and vision
and purpose
first and providing clarity for their
teams those are the people that are
really succeeding and a lot of that is
not
the traditional skill set that you
display
to get promoted to be a manager and to
be on that manager track
and so there's a lot of need to really
build up those sort of capabilities
one of the more um fun and interesting
findings that we've
had at humu in the manager space i think
is really around this idea
of how long those manager relationships
last with you
and so we typically see that your
feelings about your manager kind of
deepen over time
so if you think they're fantastic and
super effective they're aligning your
team
against shared goals and really like
doing a wonderful job you tend to think
that even
more as time passes and same if you hate
them anyone that's ever had a manager
they didn't like
knows this is true but as you as you
work with that person longer you
despise them more over time but the
really wild part of this is kind of what
i think of as like
manager baggage just like with any sort
of relationship you carry some elements
of that
uh with you into the next one and so we
see
that if people have a really negative
manager experience and even six months
or a year later
even if they've changed managers so
they're now working with an entirely
different person
who may be fantastic they actually feel
less
positively about the effectiveness of
that manager
i think this really speaks to the idea
that people see your managers as a
representation of your organization
and they're going to carry that with
them in the way that they think about
the company
and the other people that they interact
with more broadly so making sure that
your managers are all
really fantastic doing a wonderful job
investing in their people aligning them
against those goals
is really really critical awesome
so so we're just about in q a times um
and by the way i always start with the
old adage people don't quit jobs they
quit managers
totally true um well just real quick we
had one last measure we wanted to share
uh we'll do
you know 30 seconds on it um one last
thing because someone asked a question
actually about how do you
keep employees happy and measure
happiness uh especially
in the pandemic time one thing i think
that's really helpful is you have to
keep investing in people's development
the trick is most time we invest in
people's development we haven't been
able to measure impact and so molly
anything you want to add super quickly
on just like what you're seeing in an l
d
like 30 seconds yeah i mean i just think
the ability to link
softer metrics or things people think of
that way like sentiments and how
employees are feeling
with those business outcomes and they
are linked like you will find that they
are correlated they are predictive
they're really
closely related and is really really
important and i think that that helps
a lot of organizations to justify their
investments in their people because they
really do pay off
awesome thank you so much molly thank
you so much for joining us today it's
great to have your expertise on the call
and it's fun to share about people
analytics in this audience um so we're
going to go to q a we've got a couple
questions here to talk about it
one other thing too if you want to
continue the conversation feel free to
follow
follow either of us in linkedin i'm
going to post like a like a getting
started guy with people analytics to
help address some of the more
practical questions that are popping up
like what types of people analytics are
there and things like that
but in the meantime let's answer a
couple questions so a really fun one
pops up from casey
where it's talking about like how do you
balance the various desires of your
organization
and the example she gave was people
choosing uh some employees saying they
want more beef jerky versus others
wanting a 401k
um right off the bat and then i'll i'll
take a stab
yeah yeah absolutely so i think there's
some levels of this where you want to be
really personalized in the way that you
address
problems but there's also this higher
level place where people analytics is
super helpful because you really
can actually get insight into what
that's going to do
in terms of your recruiting pipeline if
you make a decision like that
is that actually going to help you
diversify your workforce
and get the talent that you want but i
think that people analytics can let you
sort of predict the future in that way
and justify
those decisions and rather than having
them
uh be left up to a vote first
one thing i'll add is that people
analytics supplement or augment
intuition as a manager and one of the
most important things that i've seen is
really like when you're talking about
measuring soft and squishy it's having
the soft
persuasion behind like really writing
down and codifying with the company
culture is really codifying what values
are
and then constantly measuring against
those values and so this is where like
standardized hiring practices around
values and like standardized scoring and
stuff really helps
ultimately i think we're really talking
in that scenario about like
what do people value reward wise and
that's something that if you hire a
bunch of people who
value fundamentally different things
it's very hard to lead in one direction
let alone keep everybody
happy when it comes time to 401k
contribution so that's a great one
um another one that we got that i think
um is helpful is
you know how do i get started with
people analytics and this seems like a
lot of work so are there any things that
you could
share to get started so from my
perspective one of the easiest things
you can do
is start with the basics right it's
being able to just on a finger like i'm
snapping a finger you know how many
people work for you how many people have
left
how many people did you add like stuff
like that that once you get past 10
people counting on like one hand can get
kind of hard
make sure you always have a dashboard
that has that information and so the
best way to do that is
look at whatever hr tech tool you have
um whether you're using like
you know ceridian or namely or like any
of those different hrs's or payroll
systems
and start using the out the box stuff
there's usually enough there
um as you start to get a little fancier
one of the things i'd recommend is
having somebody in
ops or in hr you have those functions or
if you can get an
hour you know an hour to carve out for a
project is just list down the most basic
people questioning the answer
um and start making sure you've got that
data in one place and so
like i said i'm going to share a little
booklet online that helps with this
but you know if you i'd also recommend
that if your hr system doesn't do this
try to pair up with a vendor who can
help you because it's one of those
things where like really doing the heavy
lifting yourself
is tough and it's something that's
becoming baseline capability
molly any any words of listening for
this last question i mean i i yeah i
agree with you i think that you can
actually
get a pretty long ways with some of the
technology tools that are out there to
do some of this stuff and get started
with the basics
um and then just always having having
some sort of channels so that you're
really transparent and clear about how
people can surface
challenges that they're facing and
things that need to be addressed as you
grow is really critical
absolutely all right this has been great
i'm really really
pumped that we got to share this with
the audience here thank you all so much
for tuning in
earlier this wednesday morning like i
said if you have any questions feel free
to drop either of us online
and i wish you all a wonderful and
enriching staff there thank you so much
for having us